all right we're starting off with the
fabled 10 man roster
annalee Rams pelvic so you're starting
myself on the show today Emily yes so
basically I think the examples that most
people will point to from North America
obviously teamliquid came out and said
with their acquisition of nori on like
that was kind of their headlining
acquisition but a few other players we
saw a sushi and con-con playing on a lot
of teams are going to and we'd
previously touched on this with TSM a
lot of teams are going to towards
picking up subs to build out a 10-man
roster so I wanted to reopen this
discussion because Kenyon rosters are
something that I've personally been a
little shaky on even though I've seen
the best iteration of like substitutions
and that's from fkp and I know like SKT
is kind of a team that everyone loves to
cite where when people started picking
up subs and started rotating through
them after the sister team's condensed
in Korea and fkg kept swapping between
easyhoon and faker everyone was like oh
we're going to do that because it worked
for them and that's kind of still the
example that I feel like people reach
out and hold up as like this actually
works look at SKT in 2015 look at SKT
now with just last night they had the
honey and peanut group and then the
blank antara group um but that is in my
opinion one outlier to 10-man rosters
actually working so I guess what do we
think about what do we think of all
these substitutions that are going on
the LCS do we think that teams are
actually going to use these players are
they just bringing them on as another
method of preparing for franchising and
having an academy team how do players
even feel like that like feel about it
because like I don't know if I were a
player I'd want to know that I was
starting and I think only SK Telecom
if you other teams can get away with
been chasing players or like swapping
out lions and stuff so I would say
question okay I just wanted to go all
the way back to the top or talking about
escapees like how how much can we even
call as case use ten men rostering a
success I think the one mechanism that
you can definitely say a success is this
kind of a successes like the swapping
out mechanism but often there's always
like a feeling that when they have subs
and starters there's one sub versus
there's one player who just like feels
worse for the team and the team just
seems to play way better with the other
iteration like obviously right now the
big examples like Tina right where the
King displays better with blank at the
moment um so in that regard I kind of
feel like it's not even SKT is not even
like the pinnacle of success but a 10
man roster wants to achieve because I
think the only thing SKT Semin officer
really really does well is like the
refresher aspect which is like everyone
is kind of down after a loss you swap
out a plan or something's changed yeah
all right we're here we're ready to win
the next game and I think that that's
like the only aspect that's really
really definitively a success for SKT so
I'm still kind of and I'm calling SKT
ten men roster hugely amazing only then
go mark oh no you can go oh no I was
gonna say the only addendums about that
have is we have I think the reason why
people hold up SKT is a success but I
actually agree with you I think in
certain like right now it's obvious to
me that blank is the better jungler for
SKT but in terms of citing specific
reasons why a CT swap players I wanted
to add that another thing that I think
they have done pretty well is adjust to
meta by swapping players so like I know
people were super mad about
faker being subbed out for easyhoon and
then he came out in 2016 and had this
like magnificent Azir that had yet to be
seen because they kept swapping and
easyhoon to play that champion
but I do think that's another way that
rosters can be used but even then
there's always a better five-man
interation for a specific meta or the
champions that they want to play and I
don't even know I kind of feel like
charge NFC too is just sort of playing
poorly though I don't even know if it
was meta it was like weird like faker
was just kind of playing worse I don't
know kind of like you know any time that
they able to get 10 min rostered is like
2 things people want to do they want to
like develop players and then like have
strategic depth or something like that
and to the point that like usually the
strategic depth you're adding doesn't
benefit enough to offset the chemistry
that the best version of your 5 man
roster has the example with the easy
whom 1 did seem like the strategic value
was maybe worth because faker wasn't
like absolutely smashing people at that
time frame and it made it look better
than it would if like that was an
instance where faker was like full god
mode so I kind of agreed that they're
the best example of it working and the
fact that we've been talking about this
shows that it's not like a super
compelling like thing to go for right
the fact that like our shining example
is one that we have to like talk in and
out about the benefits of yeah I mean
isn't we were talking about this last
week I think and weren't we speculating
that part of this might be because of
the franchise thing like the question is
would you have 10 all these two men
rosters popping up if the format for LCS
and the like the system of it wasn't
changing next year I think that might be
part of it I think a lot of it is just
more money because like oh PL and lck
teams were doing this just when there
was more money and I think obvious teams
like like to copy trendy things if we
also said last year and I think that was
even your point but the other aspect of
it is I think like fatigue is a
consideration because there are more
games you know but one thing also that I
remember when g2 brought on expect and
originally it was like kick it was a
greeny to share the roster with expects
but then he came back and he was saying
things like
I was surprised by how much more I felt
like I was falling behind because I
didn't get as many practice games I
didn't get as many scripts I didn't get
as many matches in general and that's
why he decided to leave g2 so I thought
that that was an interesting thing to
add so the question is like because that
I haven't heard that particular piece of
information from a lot of different
places I know a golden glue said the
same thing with like link was like they
were swapping playing time it just felt
like both them were behind the curve and
falling further because they were
splitting time a little bit earlier on
the season before TL completely moved
away from the idea of a link yeah I was
gonna say I've interviewed a couple of
players for the split positions and like
I had an interview that came out with
Inori today actually about even though
how he really loved Phoenix 1 and he
kind of made me from self of Phoenix one
in Phoenix one was like this family to
him being substituted in and out with me
Dios was actually like really
detrimental to his confidence and he
didn't really like the way he was
performing on stage because you know
less practice time meant that he wasn't
as confident going in to games um and it
became it kind of like you know snow
balled where he just wasn't as confident
of a player and it obviously affected
his performance um I think I mean it's
similar to like I don't know I know
people hate traditional sports analogies
but like people always say that if you
if you don't know who your quarterback
is going to be it's always a bad thing
because it means you're swapping through
having them have like so many reps and
practice instead of having one person's
that you can rely on get all the reps
and practice and be it in a lot better
shape to play on game day so um I mean I
don't know I'm just not a fan of 10-man
rosters I guess but I also I think
fatigue is a really good point and I
also think that like when metas shift
it's good to have players that you can
substitute in if a
player is struggling really really
really badly like for example I I do
think even though people will probably
disagree with me on this
I do think substituting blank in for
bengi last year when bengi was really
struggling like they had him on new year
and I think he's like rumbled it said
the only champion he looks
anyway confident on with Elise and even
though blank had very visible mistakes
actually agreed with the substitution
because the team played aid status or
when blank was in because he his
champion pool in his play style suited
the meta a lot better than thank you
yeah I the one thing that we haven't
really touched on that I've had owners
tell me is that being in a position to
keep having somebody that is at any
given point in time ready to step in for
your role is a great way of keeping
players motivated because like there's
often times where players might get
distracted because they start dating
someone or they just get lazy or they
start by talking about double what I'm
talking about like half of the LCS
throughout its history
you know I not to start a crumbs
conversation type here but it is very
easy for players to get burned out or
distracted and having somebody that is
like biting at their heels to try and
get in is a pretty good way of keeping
them ready and I do agree I generally
think that like the 10 min around star
thing like rarely will we see it be
played like it's very hard to imagine
any of these teams even having a point
in time where like throughout the split
they play every single player you know I
mean like how many of these these 10 man
rosters are actually going to see all 10
and are all 10 players get played at
some point in time during a split I
would be surprised if it's one of them
maybe we'll see something I don't know
but he'll maybe mark a few they've used
everyone so far right okay maybe he's
eight players yeah yeah oh yeah but I
they don't have the full ten man right
they don't yeah they don't as far as I
know they don't have a substitute for
piglet or Lulu right yeah those are the
two that have them that's one they made
a seer lower low so you probably
wouldn't get even a substitute Graham
but I'd be a straw
second half beer ray yeah so I don't
know I think I will just be surprised if
we see all ten go in maybe teamliquid
because they're crazy and zany but I
just added usually the bottom teams that
are swapping players a lot of work
they're just like desperate to find
something at least this is what I see in
LPL what where it's like oh this team
has four different 80 carries throughout
the course to split and they're all
getting played and it's not really
changing anything because you don't know
how to use wave don't swish when you do
Lane swap yeah okay excellent let's move
on yeah same same prominent bottom teams
like Linder my Alltech for law that'll
fix our problems we're like we play only
around some day like what how can you
fix your problem so it's a job feeling
here that 10-man rosters are more about
PR and marketing and also just about
like motivation than it is actually a
real thing where you start to see like
yeah we actually have 10 players that
can sub it in any given point in time I
think I wouldn't say it's like all for
PR and marketing I think like the idea
of especially next split like we said
you will need 10 players most likely
like if you have some sign it just makes
it easier in the future especially if
they're half decent players that you
signed and then I think like in terms of
strategic value there's usually not much
because the reason subs are used in
traditional sports is because people get
tired during the game that
doesn't happen any sports you don't need
to sub someone outwards like you need to
sub people out in almost every position
in every sport - like a goalie or a you
know quarterback so I don't think you'll
see that in sports where you're going to
see like a very heavy roster rotation
because ideally your five best players
are your five best players like
basketball they would never come out of
the game if they didn't get tired think
I mean the other aspect is the GT
vacation method right they bring in some
subs Joe thanks granny I can't have a
chilled water vacation one thing I would
be interested to see more of the
substance in house because even if they
aren't getting like scrimmage
artists times like the benefit of the
teen environment and that kind of rigor
if they're really young and they've ever
been part of a team like seeing how
screens work all these sorts of things
could theoretically be beneficial so
that's something that I think might be
interesting if it happens so we're not
really sure yeah I think there are a lot
of benefits but not all of them tie into
like mid series substitution or like
today we're using a different roster